[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People basically going to
keep on-- to help uncover what
really happened.
>>It felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>> GEORGE NOORY: What
exactly is the 27 club?
Well, it's a group
of musicians who
have sadly and tragically
died at the age of 27.
Let me show you a little bit
more about what that means.
[MUSIC -- THE DOORS, "THE END"]
>> NOORY: How uncanny they
all died at the age of 27.
And with me on "Beyond
Belief," of course,
is rock and roll historian and
noted author R. Gary Patterson.
Gary, we've talked about
this over the years.
Truly bizarre story.
>> R. GARY PATTERSON:
It really is.
And I know that a lot of people
who are in rock and roll, they
sort of hold that age of 27.
They sort of think, I
need to really be careful.
I know I read an
interview with John Mayer.
It was in a BMI publication.
And they asked him,
they said, what
was your greatest
contribution so far?
And he said, well,
I made it past 27.
And I mean, every time,
if there's an accident,
I hear about some
rock star who died.
In my mind, I say, oh my
gosh, please don't be 27.
But with Amy Winehouse,
I was headed to Florida.
And I bet I had 16 phone calls
from radio networks wanting
to do an interview on
the 27 club and with Amy.
So what was odd, I did a segment
with E. And they picked out,
it was either going to
be Britney Spears or Amy
Winehouse who'd be the
next member of the club.
>> NOORY: Really?
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
And every time I watched
that, it had Amy.
And they said she
better watch out.
It was just really interesting
that they would pick that.
>> NOORY: I don't think
Britney ever have that kind
of a lifestyle where
she would have ended up.
Or did she?
>> PATTERSON: Well, there was
a time that people were worried
about her because she
became very out there,
I guess you would say, shaving
her head and all the others.
But she seemed to have
got her act together.
And that's not to say that if
you're a rock star and not 27
you don't have
your act together.
It just seems like maybe the
mystery of this whole thing
is some synchronicity,
or whatever.
But we've talked
about it many times.
And the story, when I started
this, I was doing research
on my second book,
"Hellhounds on their Trail,"
and I found it fascinating
that the very first chapter
of my book was on Robert
Johnson, the famous blues
man who supposedly made
a deal with the devil.
But he died at 27.
And when I found other rock
stars in the book-- Jimi
Hendrix, Brian Jones,
Janis Joplin-- I
thought it was odd
they all died at 27.
>> NOORY: We just looked at just
a small glimpse of the amount.
>> PATTERSON: Exactly.
There over 45 rock stars
who've died at the age of 27.
It's the number one age for
the death of rock stars.
It's truly bizarre.
>> NOORY: So when you look
at something like that,
do you think, well,
maybe as a rock star--
and they do live these
very wild lives--
get close to that age of 27 that
they pile it on because they
think they're going
to die at that age?
Do you think they will this onto
themselves in an unknowing way?
>> PATTERSON: You know, that's
an interesting question.
In Romantic
literature, John Keats
found out that he was dying.
He had one year to live.
So what he did, he wrote
the five greatest odes
in the history of
the English language.
>> NOORY: In his last year.
>> PATTERSON: And he did it.
He was obsessed to
getting finished.
He had a famous
sonnet, "When I Have
Fears that I May Cease to Be."
I think in rock
stars, they are always
capable of writing
great material.
I think that sometimes at
the age of 27, when it hits,
I don't think it's
because they're more,
well, they use more drugs
or they take more risk.
I mean, if you look
at the cause of death,
they're not all drug overdoses.
And there's no doubt
in my mind that some
of the rock stars who've
been accused of dying of drug
overdose were actually murdered.
>> NOORY: Well, that's
a good point, too.
That's a good point.
>> PATTERSON: It's
a coincidence at 27,
but their creativity is great.
So we talked about
numerology with this.
We talked about
astrology with this.
And when you talk
about the number
9-- 2 plus 7 being 9-- that it's
their highest spiritual power
and they're ready to leave
this version of the world.
So their music's great.
We have their music.
>> NOORY: That lives on forever.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah, the
music lives on forever.
They're immortal,
and they'll always
influence us in the
next generations.
>> NOORY: Is it possible that
there's some sick cult out
there that looks at these
rock stars and has decided,
over the years, to
kill them off at 27?
>> PATTERSON: Wow.
Now, that'd make a good movie.
>> NOORY: It would be a good.
You're going to
have to write it.
>> PATTERSON: I'd
have to co-credit you.
But yeah, Id do that for you.
>> NOORY: Just send a check.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
I've had those checks.
But what happens is basically--
>> NOORY: That would be
an interesting theory.
>> PATTERSON: It would
be an interesting theory.
It really would be.
You might think that there
may be government entities who
have been involved in the
death of certain rock stars.
>> NOORY: Just to get rid of
them because they're changing
culture.
>> PATTERSON: That's right.
So I'll give you
another hypothesis.
Let's say that if you did
have some secret government
agency that's
setting up rock stars
because they're in
holding companies
making millions of
dollars off their music,
and if their music
was dying out--
>> NOORY: They make more.
>> PATTERSON: Right,
when they're dead.
>> NOORY: Look at
Michael Jackson.
>> PATTERSON: Look
at Michael Jackson.
Look at anyone who
dies, the obsession
to go out and buy their
Greatest Hits, or anything
by that artist.
>> NOORY: Elvis's estate
is making a fortune.
>> PATTERSON: Elvis makes
more money now, dead,
than he did when he was alive.
Jimi Hendrix said, it's funny
how people love the dead.
Once you're dead,
you're made forever.
And it's true.
And when the first rock and
roll fatality, Johnny Ace,
when he accidentally
shot himself
with a pistol he thought was
unloaded and booked his ticket
to rock and roll heaven, the
late, great Johnny Ace album
came out.
And it sold more records,
because everybody
heard about his death.
They wanted to commemorate
with the music.
And so those are two theories
that would be interesting.
They would make great movies.
Let's do it, George.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
I mean, there's something there.
It is too ironic, Gary, that
so many of these people-- 40
plus-- would die
at the age of 27.
It just defies logic
and it defies odds.
>> PATTERSON: Well, it does.
And like I said, hopefully--
I hate these to even think
of the idea that it
continues, but now it
seems like it's in
everyone's consciousness.
Every time, like when
Amy Winehouse died,
it was all over
newspapers everywhere,
the 27 club, the curse of 27.
So when I did my
second book, I called
it "The Club and
the Curse of 27."
We did it on VH1.
So they usually call
me to talk about it.
And we do it every time
someone passes away at 27,
we have our discussion.
>> NOORY: That's right.
I do.
I always call you.
There's another one, Gary.
>> PATTERSON: That's it, man.
And we know that.
And still, it's probably
the strangest curse ever.
You talk about Tutankhamen's
Tomb and all that.
Rock stars' deaths
at the age of 27
has got to be one of the
most puzzling coincidences,
if there is a coincidence.
>> NOORY: You know I
don't believe in them.
>> PATTERSON: I know.
Because a coincidence is an
explanation waiting to happen.
>> NOORY: That's right.
Have you talked
to any rock stars
who are aged under 27 who talk
to you about this possibility
and this fear?
>> PATTERSON: I've
had some emails.
And the email is
that they've actually
gone to the crossroads in
Clarksdale, Mississippi.
They follow the myth so closely.
And they're tied into
this Robert Johnson motif.
And I know that
Jimmy Page and Robert
Plant had an album,
"Walking into Clarksdale."
So some of them
get really tied up.
But then again, sometimes it
might be good publicity also,
you know.
But I don't think anybody's
ready to let go at 27.
If I were 27 and a rock star,
I would really watch it.
I wouldn't take a bath with
my electric guitar plugged in.
I would not doing
anything that would
make me the next
member of the club.
>> NOORY: And even those
that live beyond 27 who die
in their 40s, like Elvis,
and-- I don't know,
how old was Michael Jackson?
He was in his 40s?
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
>> NOORY: That's
still young, too.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
>> NOORY: So what does that tell
you about the entire business
of music like that?
>> PATTERSON: I would say
that when you have to perform,
when you have to write songs,
when you're on that grueling
schedule, you may become
more susceptible to certain
pharmaceuticals.
I think that you
burn yourself out.
And then I think sometimes
you look in a mirror
and you see a
character of yourself.
And sadly or not,
the music is great.
And those artists who pass
away, they've given their all.
But as we said before, as
long as their music lasts,
they've been able to
grasp immortality.
Because when we did "The
End" at the opening segment,
Jim Morrison will
always be under 27.
He died young, and
the music will always
inspire new generations.
Other people who want to
touch Morrison's psyche, who
want to be involved
in his lifestyle, who
want to make names for
themselves in this field.
But it's really odd.
I haven't checked how
many country music artists
have died at the age of 27.
>> NOORY: Now that's an
interesting twist, too.
I remember a few years ago
when I had the late Ray
Manzerak on and Robby Krieger.
Ray, of course,
just passed away.
But they were the two remaining
living members of The Doors.
And I asked them both,
I said, all right.
Tell me right now.
Do you think Jim
Morrison is still alive?
And they both looked
at each other.
Then they looked at me.
And they went, absolutely not.
He's dead.
>> PATTERSON: And
I have to tell you.
I was involved in that show.
>> NOORY: Yes, you were.
>> PATTERSON: And I will
tell you that I was shocked.
>> NOORY: Did you think they
were going to say he was alive?
>> PATTERSON: I thought Ray
Manzerak would say that he did
not believe that Jim Morrison
was in that coffin at Pere
Lachaise.
Now do you want me to
tell you why I know?
>> NOORY: Tell me why.
>> NOORY: I did a
series with VH1.
It was called "VH1
Confidential."
And Ray was on the show.
And at that time,
the French government
was going to exhume Jim Morrison
and send him back to LA.
I guess it was Jim's
2001 tour, or whatever.
But they were upset
because of the vandalism
in the cemetery,
all the graffiti.
And it had to be cleaned, people
trying to get into the grave,
dig him up.
And so on July 10, 2001, he
was supposed to be exhumed.
And we asked Ray
that same question.
And this is what Ray Manzerak
said, and this was in 2001.
He said, when they
open that coffin,
I will be with Doors' fans
from around the world.
And we will be standing
at Pere Lachaise.
And we will all be
saying, open the box.
Open the box.
Because I don't believe
Jim Morrison is in there.
>> NOORY: Interesting.
>> PATTERSON: So now you
see how shocked I was.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
Why did he change
over those years?
>> PATTERSON: I don't know.
I mean, I know some individuals
within the Morrison family.
I guess now if we think
about Jim being alive,
he'd be much older.
He wouldn't look like himself.
It's awful hard to hide
an identity that long.
But when "No One Here Gets
Out Alive" was published,
they were talking
about Pamela Courson.
And Jerry Hopkins and
Sugarman asked her.
They said, is Jim still alive?
And she said, well, if he
were alive, he would call me.
How many people saw the body?
>> NOORY: Exactly.
>> PATTERSON: When Bill Siddons
came over by The Doors request
to go to Paris, all he saw was
a simple veneer coffin with
the lid screwed into place.
And Ray Manzerak told Siddons.
He said, Bill, when
you go, make sure.
And when he came back, he
said, I just saw the coffin.
We went to the funeral
and buried him.
You didn't see the body.
>> NOORY: They all had their
suspicions, didn't they?
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
There were suspicions.
I mean, the way it happened,
the Morrison family
didn't even know about
it until he was buried.
And of course, if he died
of a drug overdose, then
the question is somebody
would have to be arrested.
So it was very generous
that a Parisian coroner
said he died of a heart attack.
And that way--
>> NOORY: In a bath tub.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah, but here's
the thing about the bath tub.
When I was in Paris,
there was a new book
that came out on The Doors.
And it said that Jim
was in a nightclub
and that two men
had sold him heroin,
and then he went into
a bathroom stall.
And they found him sprawled
out against the floor.
The manager of the
club called a medic
to come in and take a look
at him, an EMT specialist.
And he pronounced him dead.
>> NOORY: Right
there in the club?
>> PATTERSON: Right
there in the club.
And the two men who
sold him the drugs
said no, no, he's not dead.
He'll be fine.
They kept slapping
him on the face.
They picked him up and they
carried him to his apartment.
>> NOORY: Even though
he might have been dead.
>> PATTERSON: Even though
he may have been dead.
The problem was-- and this
is what always amazes me--
when they found his body, his
back was against the faucets.
I don't know anyone--
>> NOORY: Nobody sits with
your back against that.
The feet are against the faucet.
>> PATTERSON: Exactly.
And his back was against it
like he'd been placed there.
And then it ended.
But I think there's
a lot of questions.
I don't think Jim's still alive.
But I'm thinking that there
was a heck of a cover up.
>> NOORY: Like they played
around with the way he died.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah, yeah.
>> NOORY: What is it about the
American and the human psyche,
Gary, that wants these rock
stars to live on forever?
We want to believe that Jim
Morrison is alive somewhere.
We want to believe that
Eddie and the Cruisers
is still alive, that
Elvis is still alive.
Why won't we let them die?
>> PATTERSON: Because
they're too much of a part
of our lives.
If you go back to
ancient Greece?
When a great athlete
died, he was a god.
You didn't have
politicians back then,
but if you had a great general?
He was a god.
And they were thought of
as always living with it.
When you listen to their music,
and it sounds so viable today,
then they're living on in our
consciousness and our memories.
So we just refuse
to let them die.
We think about it.
And if it's a great
story, you know.
And we love conspiracies,
and the idea,
how could Jim Morrison
get out of Paris?
How can he have faked it?
And I've heard
stories that there
was a look-alike, a German.
I think his name was Dietmer,
and that he looked just
like Morrison.
And the idea was that this man
had died of the drug overdose,
Morrison had him buried.
And that way, he was able
to get out of the country.
There were people who swear they
saw Morrison board a plane out
of Paris three days after
his announced death.
So you have all that.
And when Michael Jackson
died, if you remember,
there were people claiming
to have seen Michael Jackson.
It's just--
>> NOORY: Outside of the, or
getting out of the ER area?
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
And walking out and
seeing him amongst people.
And the idea is it
fits the pattern.
So any time a great rocker
dies, I will guarantee you,
you'll hear that he faked it.
Now, Morrison, he
had an IQ over 150.
So he was very, very bright.
So if anybody could
have faked it,
it would have been Morrison.
>> NOORY: Here's
another question.
Why would anybody want to fake
one's death and end whatever
was going on, and
just give it all up?
>> PATTERSON: What's
the theory with Elvis,
that he had turned in a drug
ring and that the mob was after
him?
>> NOORY: And he
was part of the CIA.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah, and that
they protect him with witness
protection.
And then you take the
same thing with Morrison.
Morrison was a poet.
He was tired of
being a rock god.
He went to Paris to write
poetry, serious poetry.
He didn't really like
performing anymore.
And he tells The Doors
before he leaves,
he said, you know, I can see
myself dropping out, going
into business, wearing
a three-piece suit.
And just see myself dropping
out of the whole music thing.
>> NOORY: He wanted a change.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
And think of the
royalties he collected.
The money was coming in.
And of course now, the Courson
family and the Morrison family,
I understand, split it.
But there was a great
deal of money coming in.
>> NOORY: And still.
>> PATTERSON: And still.
>> NOORY: We've got some
clips of some people.
And I want to play them for you.
And then we'll talk a little
bit about them, their lives.
Let's look first at Old
Bue Eyes, Frank Sinatra.
[MUSIC -- FRANK SINATRA, "NEW
YORK, NEW YORK"]
>> NOORY: Nobody had charisma
and presence like he did, Gary.
>> PATTERSON: Well he was a rock
star before rock and roll ever
started.
But when it came out,
he hated rock and roll.
And he really condemned it.
And then he sort
of, eh, Elvis isn't
so bad after all,
when Elvis came out.
>> NOORY: But there were some
who say he got to where he is
and was because of the mob.
What do you think of that?
>> PATTERSON: Well, I think that
he had many interesting ties,
OK?
And I've heard the scene in "The
Godfather" about the horse's
head was supposed to
be a thing to help--
>> NOORY: Help Frank.
>> PATTERSON: --get into the
business and make his name.
And you think about the
ties, the relationships.
I don't think
there's anything that
says that Frank Sinatra
had anyone killed,
but that he had many friends.
And I'm sure there were
very helpful in his career.
I mean, there's no
doubt about that.
And of course, if you're
going to do Frank,
you may look at the
Kennedy assassination.
>> NOORY: Sure.
That could be all tied in.
>> PATTERSON: Mmhm.
That would be tied in with that.
>> NOORY: Well, you say you
can't be that kind of a star.
And even though he
developed, he was on a star
before he had the mob ties.
But you can't be who he
was and not know everybody.
>> PATTERSON: It's true.
>> NOORY: And so he touched
their lives, they touched his.
>> PATTERSON: And maybe you'd
be very thankful for people who
helped you climb the ladder to
get the success that you had.
And you wouldn't turn
your back on them.
>> NOORY: That's right.
Because the one
thing about Frank is,
I've heard better
singer singers.
I think Tony Bennett
has a better voice.
But he has amazing
stage presence.
He's got this aura about
him when he was out there.
I spent some time
looking at old clips
when he was on
Johnny Carson's show.
He was in Saint Louis
performing at a benefit.
So there's some old
YouTube stuff on that.
He wasn't the greatest
singer of all the people.
But he had the charisma
that made him a superstar.
>> PATTERSON: And I think the
word charisma sums it all up.
And a lot of these
rock stars, I mean,
did Jim Morrison have charisma?
They all did.
They learned the lessons--
>> NOORY: Magnetic people.
>> PATTERSON: Magnetic
that drew you toward them,
made you interested in
them, made you want to buy
their music, made the
album sell off the shelves.
And charisma that brought people
to you that helped your career,
and you remember those people.
You do.
And you want to
help them as well.
So yeah, I think
that Frank Sinatra
had many interesting
acquaintances.
I think that Frank Sinatra had
one of the greatest voices.
And it saddened me when I
heard that he had passed away.
And he was maybe a crooner, he
was in a whole different time
that was sort of edged out
when rock and roll started.
>> NOORY: Final
words, "I'm losing."
That's what he told
people as he was dying.
Jimmy Page, before
we look at the clip,
tell me about Jimmy Page.
>> PATTERSON: Jimmy Page is
one of the greatest guitarists
of all time.
And before he
started Led Zeppelin,
he played with the
Yardbirds, and actually kept
the name the New Yardbirds.
But what always
amazed me about Page,
he was probably the number one
session guitarist in England.
And if you listen to Donovan,
like "Hurdy Gurdy Man,"
and you listen to "Sunshine
Supermam," that's Jimmy Page.
And he had a fabulous
array of sounds.
Now, what makes
Page interesting is
he had an interest
in the occult.
>> NOORY: And let's talk about
that after we take a look
at Jimmy Page.
[ACOUSTIC GUITAR SOLO PLAYING]
>> NOORY: Billy Gibbons
and Jimi Hendrix,
who I think also are
great guitar players,
what do you think they would
have said about Jimmy Page?
>> PATTERSON: I think there
would have loved of Jimmy Page.
He had a whole different style.
When I listen to a the
number of his guitar solos,
I think there's no way anybody
could play that better.
There's no way anyone else
could improvise, like "Stairway
to Heaven," the solo at the end.
You wait for that.
It's so melodic,
you wait to hear it.
And I think that's what
they'd think about him.
I think he's one of
the top 10 greatest
guitarists of all time.
>> NOORY: But you said he's got
an interest, had an interest,
in the occult?
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
Let me explain
the word "occult."
>> NOORY: OK.
>> PATTERSON: Occult
means hidden knowledge.
>> NOORY: That's right.
It doesn't mean dark.
>> PATTERSON: No.
It doesn't mean
worship the devil.
All right?
I belonged to a
college fraternity.
It was occult
knowledge, because we
had a secret password,
a secret handshake.
>> NOORY: Fidelio.
>> PATTERSON: Yeah.
They could blame us
for that, I guess.
But the whole idea
is that he was--
I guess you could say he was
obsessed with Aleister Crowley.
And Crowley was probably
a leading figure
of the mid to late '60s.
And people were fascinates
in the idea magick.
And magick with a K
meant that it was real,
not someone who goes over
and does a lot of hand slides
and all that.
This was real things, summoning
spirits talking to him.
Page had an occult bookstore
called The Equinox.
He collected
memorabilia by Crowley.
He had robes.
He had the daggers.
He had annotated novels.
>> NOORY: Oh, he was into it.
>> PATTERSON: He was into it.
But then, he collected the
ultimate Crowley piece.
And that was the
house that Crowley
lived in called Boleskin.
>> NOORY: He bought the house?
>> PATTERSON: He
bought the house.
And the house had
a great history.
It was built in
the medieval age.
It was built on the spot where
an entire church was burned
to the ground with
all its people in it.
And then the house was
built on top of that.
And bad luck happened to
people who owned this house.
There were stories of a man
trying to kill his family,
like in "The Shining."
One man cut his hand off
after writing out a list.
I mean, it was
madness filled it.
>> NOORY: Evil.
>> PATTERSON: And when
Crowley lived there,
the story goes that one
of the rooms was so dark,
you couldn't illuminate
it with light.
And a story goes that "The Book
of the Law" was lost there,
some of it was written there.
And when Crowley left and he
died-- I think it was in 1947--
the house went through a series
of other, I guess you'd say,
owners who had terrible luck.
So when it went up on
auction, Page bought it.
But the story goes that he
didn't spend the night there.
>> NOORY: Ever?
>> PATTERSON: That's
what I understand.
We did an interview
with Malcolm Dent,
who was the groundskeeper.
>> NOORY: I wonder how
soon he died after that.
>> PATTERSON: Well, to tell you
the truth, Page sold the house.
And Bonham died
shortly afterwards
in his house in Windsor.
But not at Boleskin House.
And if you watch the movie,
"The Song Remains The Same,"
you can see the house.
And you can see Page
climbing the mountain top
to see the old man-- the old
hermit-- in the tarot deck.
So you had that.
And then you had a curse
that was placed on Jimmy Page
and Zeppelin that
affected its members.
So I think that John Paul
Jones broke his left hand
and they had to cancel the tour.
John Bonham had a
number of car accidents.
>> NOORY: Somebody lost
a son, didn't they?
>> PATTERSON: Robert Plant.
It was terrible.
He had an accident
in Rhodes also.
And when he did the album
"Presence," the story goes,
he was in a wheelchair
as he sang it.
But nothing touched Jimmy Page.
I mean, he passed 27.
And he's still alive today.
And he's playing
some great music.
>> NOORY: And he still has
remained scot-free from many
curses, or anything like that?
>> PATTERSON: That's true.
And people say, well,
that's just because he
has such a knowledge of
the certain skills that he
was able to bypass it.
Now, I'm not sure
they're curses.
Maybe they're just
strange happenstance.
But at that time, I'm sure that
if you were in Led Zeppelin,
you would wonder.
And of course, you have
the famous backward track
on "Stairway to Heaven," and
recording "Led Zeppelin IV"
at Headley Grange where it was
an abandoned workhouse where
a number of people had to
work, the working poor.
And they died there.
And I think Jimmy Page
said in an article
that he actually
saw an apparition
at the top of the stairs.
So I guess that gives
you some motivation.
"Led Zeppelin IV," great album.
>> NOORY: Maybe he did.
Amazing person, huh?
>> PATTERSON: Amazing person.
>> NOORY: Let's do one
more clip, Robert Johnson.
Let's take a look.
[MUSIC -- ROBERT JOHNSON, "30-20
BLUES"]
>> NOORY: Well, did he sell
his soul to the devil to get
to where he was?
>> PATTERSON: What
a great story.
When Robert Johnson was
living in the delta,
he was probably the worst
guitar player there.
And all the old blues men
would dodge him, the Son House
and the others.
And Johnson disappeared
for maybe six months.
And when he came back, he was
probably the hottest guitar
player there.
>> NOORY: Just like that?
>> PATTERSON: Just like that.
Now let me tell
you, I play guitar.
Six months is
almost unbelievable
to learn to be that proficient.
And it was Son House who turned
to the others and said, hey,
he sold his soul
to play like that.
And then he was great.
And people would come to
see him in the roadhouses.
And I'm sure, having a
cataract on one of his eyes,
that when he would hold his head
down and his eye would glow,
the people--
>> NOORY: They didn't have
surgery in those days.
>> PATTERSON: No.
And the people noticed, oh
my gosh, look at his eye.
It's the evil eye.
And when he would play licks,
he would turn his back.
Because he didn't want
other guitar players
to steal his technique.
But they thought, oh, he
has something to hide.
Because they
believed, the legend
said that when you went
to the crossroads right
outside Clarksdale, and
you offered up your soul,
you felt the presence of this
huge black man behind you.
But you did not want to
turn and look at him.
So you handed your guitar
over your shoulder.
And then you would hear this
man tune it to a special tuning.
And when he handed it
back over your shoulder,
the deal was made.
And what you would
gain, you would
gain the power to
play the blues.
You would have the
effects of all the women
that you could choose.
>> NOORY: Until the day came.
>> PATTERSON:
Until the day came.
And it was a short day.
And that's why when Robert
Johnson was in his last juke
joint, and he drank from an
open bottle of whiskey that
had been laced with strychnine,
it took him three days to die.
And he died on his hands and
knees howling like a dog.
And that story was
fascinating to Jimmy Page.
It was fascinating
to Robert Plant,
to Keith Richards of the Rolling
Stones, and Eric Clapton.
They got into the music
because of the legend.
Now, did he really
sell his soul?
Robert Johnson never stated that
he made a deal with the devil.
But there was another
Johnson, Ledell Johnson,
who claimed that his
brother, Tommy, had actually
sold his soul to the crossroads.
And if you see the movie "Oh
Brother, Where Art Thou?,"
they pick up this
black musician.
And they said, what are doing?
He said, I just sold
my soul to the devil.
Well, that was the
story of Tommy Johnson.
>> NOORY: And so many
of them probably have.
Gary, thank you for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>> PATTERSON: Always great
to be with you, George.
>> NOORY: R. Gary Page.
Make sure you look
at some of his work,
it's simply fantastic.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]